In this blog I’m Keyne Kassapa Oei and my friend M.Farrel Yaman A.P will discuss a video about 
Deadlocks which was uploaded by UMass OS with the title of the video is Lecture 10: Deadlocks 
with the duration of 1 hours 13 minutes in link https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=au6DIawo7fY 

The background of deadlock is when a process value is needed by each processes. This process can happen 
when a user wants to share resources using links, memory, and else. Deadlock can occur in a finite number of 
trial when threads are competing for a resource. There is 3 main points about the deadlock; Deadlock detection, 
deadlock prevention, and deadlock avoidance. Deadlock detection to find the deadlock when threads stop making 
some progress and it will try to recover from the infinite loop. Deadlock prevention will restrict you from 
possibility of deadlock occurring. Deadlock avoidance will check resource request and its availability to 
avoid the thread from making infinite loop. The resources sometime are available but used by other thread 
which will make the thread waits. This process called as starvation. 

Deadlock can happen if there is at least one of these 4 conditions occur; Mutual Exclusion, Hold and wait, 
no preemption, and circular wait. Mutual Exclusion happens when one thread or more hold a resource that is 
not shareable which means the resource can be used by only one thread. Hold and wait happens when one thread 
or more waiting for other resources become available. No preemption happens when the thread cannot force 
other thread to release the resource. Circular wait happens when there is list of waiting thread. 
Deadlock detection can be done by looking the allocation graph. If there is a cycle or a possible loop, 
then a deadlock might be occurring. To correct the deadlock, you can kill all threads in the infinite loop, 
forcing the deadlock to give up resources needed. Avoiding deadlock can be done by resource reservation which 
algorithm must ensure that there will be no circular-wait condition occurs. There is other way to resolve this 
which is using resource allocation graph by denying the unsafe state.

The summary of this video is that the deadlock is a condition where a set of threads cannot run normally since 
it must wait for resources. It can be solved by 3 main solutions that has already written above. 
The man in this video explain specifically about how deadlock works and how to solved the problem. 

Keyne Kassapa github account is keynekassapa13.
M.Farrel Yaman A.P github account is farrelyaman. 
URL for this review is http://keynekassapa13.blogspot.co.id/2016/12/review1-deadlock.html 
URL for youtube video is https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=au6DIawo7fY . 
We submit this review at 8 December 2016 23:25 PM
We revised this review at 8 December 2016 23:25 PM

